src/content/blog/2017/talks-from-sips-2017.md, before:

---
title: "Talks from SIPS 2017"
date: 2017-08-05
categories:
  - "code"
  - "science"
image: ./images/improving_psych.png
---

The annual meeting of the Society for the Improvement of Psychological Science was amazing! You should see [the OSF conference page](https://osf.io/jtcu9/) if you missed out on it, and you should see the following presentations if you missed out on me:

- [The tidy-data portion of David Condon & I's Preparing and Curating Data for Sharing.](http://simon.podhajsky.net/sips-2017-curation/) (Here's an [OSF page](https://osf.io/p7zv3/) for the whole workshop.)
- [My lightning talk about automated testing of legacy research software](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LvFHVHafyie5NgcQH5rWhk9vQLfnoZW1tcnkqWmvk6U/edit?usp=sharing), featuring my experience of setting up an automated integration test for [PsychTaskFramework](github.com/YaleDecisionNeuro/PsychTaskFramework) with Robot Framework and Sikuli.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQTc5VajwxkJkDGhZJO5WFRWKPhYyLmj8WvSVhwXkoyx3cpXiKdv2rjDgdkf0eRun04iyLXRvWh3g-6/embed?start=false&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

Commit message:

Add `description:` to all old blog articles
Mitigates and closes #11.

src/content/blog/2017/talks-from-sips-2017.md, after:

---
title: "Talks from SIPS 2017"
date: 2017-08-05
description: >
  The annual meeting of the Society for the Improvement of Psychological Science was amazing. Here are the talks I gave.
categories:
  - "code"
  - "science"
image: ./images/improving_psych.png
---

The annual meeting of the Society for the Improvement of Psychological Science was amazing! You should see [the OSF conference page](https://osf.io/jtcu9/) if you missed out on it, and you should see the following presentations if you missed out on me:

- [The tidy-data portion of David Condon & I's Preparing and Curating Data for Sharing.](http://simon.podhajsky.net/sips-2017-curation/) (Here's an [OSF page](https://osf.io/p7zv3/) for the whole workshop.)
- [My lightning talk about automated testing of legacy research software](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1LvFHVHafyie5NgcQH5rWhk9vQLfnoZW1tcnkqWmvk6U/edit?usp=sharing), featuring my experience of setting up an automated integration test for [PsychTaskFramework](github.com/YaleDecisionNeuro/PsychTaskFramework) with Robot Framework and Sikuli.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQTc5VajwxkJkDGhZJO5WFRWKPhYyLmj8WvSVhwXkoyx3cpXiKdv2rjDgdkf0eRun04iyLXRvWh3g-6/embed?start=false&amp;loop=true&amp;delayms=5000" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
