src/content/pages/job-search.md, before:

---
title: Job Search Criteria
language: en
---

I'm not looking for a job right now, but if I were, here's what I'd be looking for.

I follow [the 80,000 Hours guidelines](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/job-satisfaction/) in my job search. This means that my dream job would have three main characteristics:

1. **High impact.** I want to work on something that matters: it has at least the potential to improve the world and positively affect the lives of many.
2. **Learning opportunities.** I want to grow as a professional. This can mean either new skills, new domain, or new responsibilities.
3. **Good working conditions.** I want to work in an environment that is supportive, respectful, and inclusive; I love a team that values open communication, feedback, and collaboration; and I expect to be paid fairly for my work.

Finally - and perhaps this goes without saying - I need to be **a good fit** for the job as well. [You can get a good idea of what fits me on my About page](/) - generally speaking, **I thrive at the intersection of data and LLMs**.

- If you have a dream job that fits these criteria, please reach out right away!
- If your job fits _some_ but not all, I'm still happy to hear about it, but less likely to leave my current position over it.
- If your job doesn't fit _any_ of these criteria, I'm probably not the right person for it.

Commit message:

Add a consulting section to my job-search page

src/content/pages/job-search.md, after:

---
title: Job Search Criteria
language: en
---

## Short-term consulting

I'm open to after-hours consulting work (i.e. one-time, evening, or weekend work). The topics I can provide the most impact on are:

- **LLM evals for your application-layer products.** Need to productize beyond the prototype phase? I'm your guy.
- **Synthetic data generation for LLM training and system evaluations.** (Really a part of the previous bullet.)
- **Architecting early data pipelines.** Go from Google Sheets to analytics-ready data warehouse.
- **Setting yourself and your team up for vibe-coding.** Speed up your development process with LLM-based tooling.

I'm also open to speaking engagements, workshops, and other events on these topics. [See my previous presentations here](/presentations/).

## Full-time jobs

I'm not looking for a job right now, but if I were, here's what I'd be looking for.

I follow [the 80,000 Hours guidelines](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/job-satisfaction/) in my job search. This means that my dream job would have three main characteristics:

1. **High impact.** I want to work on something that matters: it has at least the potential to improve the world and positively affect the lives of many.
2. **Learning opportunities.** I want to grow as a professional. This can mean either new skills, new domain, or new responsibilities.
3. **Good working conditions.** I want to work in an environment that is supportive, respectful, and inclusive; I love a team that values open communication, feedback, and collaboration; and I expect to be paid fairly for my work.

Finally - and perhaps this goes without saying - I need to be **a good fit** for the job as well. [You can get a good idea of what fits me on my About page](/) - generally speaking, **I thrive at the intersection of data and LLM engineering**.

- If you have a dream job that fits these criteria, please reach out right away!
- If your job fits _some_ but not all, I'm still happy to hear about it, but less likely to leave my current position over it.
- If your job doesn't fit _any_ of these criteria, I'm probably not the right person for it.
