src/pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: "../layouts/GenericPage.astro"
title: "About Me"
description: Meet Šimon Podhajský.
heroImage: /blog-placeholder-about.jpg
language: en
---

Hi! I'm Šimon Podhajský [^1].

- **I know how to evaluate and productionize LLM-based applications.** I understand that integrating standard software engineering and ML best practices is what keeps the modern LLM-based apps from remaining merely a fancy demo.
- **I know data engineering.** Performant, semantically rich, reproducible: my pipelines are all of the above.
- **I know data science and data analytics.** (It's more than just averages and sums across the right groups.)
- **I work across the full stack, all the way to deployment.** Does the project need a frontend to interact with and a cloud infrastructure to host itself in? I'm on it.
- **I know communication and public speaking.** I've spoken at local meetups, online events, and big conferences. **Hit me up to speak on any of the above!**
- I'm a generalist, which just means that I don't stop at a problem's boundary; I see it through wherever it needs to go.


[^1]: My name's orthography is Czech. The "š" is pronounced like the "sh" in "shoe", and the "ý" is pronounced like the "ee" in "bee". So, it's "SHEE-mon Pot-HIGH-skee". But you can always call me Simon.

Commit message:

Update and interconnect About and Job Search pages

src/pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: "../layouts/GenericPage.astro"
title: "About Me"
description: Meet Šimon Podhajský.
heroImage: /blog-placeholder-about.jpg
language: en
---

Hi! I'm Šimon Podhajský[^1]. I graduated Yale in 2015 and have worked in data analytics, data science, and data engineering ever since. Here's what I can do for you:

- **I know how to evaluate and productionize LLM-based applications.** I understand that integrating standard software engineering and ML best practices is what keeps the modern LLM-based apps from remaining merely a fancy demo.
- **I know data engineering.** Performant, semantically rich, reproducible: my pipelines are all of the above.
- **I know data science and data analytics.** (It's more than just averages and sums across the right groups.)
- **I work across the full stack, all the way to deployment.** Does the project need a frontend to interact with and a cloud infrastructure to host itself in? I'm on it.
- **I know communication and public speaking.** [I've spoken at local meetups, online events, and big conferences.](/presentations) **Hit me up to speak at any of the above!**
- I'm **a generalist**, which just means that I don't stop at a problem's boundary; I see it through wherever it needs to go.

If you like what you're seeing, let's chat! ([If you're a recruiter, please read my job search criteria.](/job-search))

And if you want to pick out a topic of conversation, [I'm up to a lot of things](/now) - hopefully, we can find something in common!

[^1]: My name is Czech. The "š" is pronounced like the "sh" in "shoe", and the "ý" is pronounced like the "ee" in "bee". So, it's "SHIH-mon Pot-HIGH-skee". But you can always call me Simon.
